Evaluating MathRider.

1) Make sure you have a current version of Java (Java 6) installed (http://java.com).

2) Download the mathrider_xxx_dist_.xx.zip file and extract it.

3) Run the application by executing the windows_run.bat script or the run.sh
script.


Playing with Piper:

1)  The lower left window contains consoles.  Switch the console to
Piper by pressing the little black inverted triangle which is near
the word "System".  Select the Piper console and when it comes up,
enter expressions and execute them by pressing <enter>.

2) The Piper programs in the text window can be executed by placing
the cursor in a window and pressing <shift><enter>.  The output will
be displayed in the Piper console window.

3) The most interesting files are MathRider worksheet files (which are the
ones that end with a .mws extension).  MathRider worksheets consist of "folds" 
which contain different types of code that can be executed by pressing 
<shift><enter> inside of a fold.  Select the worksheet_demo_1.mws window and 
follow the instructions which are present within the comments it contains.



For the rest of the testing you are going to need to use your
imagination and try to envision what MathRider can become as opposed
to what it currently is.

Plugins:

1) At the right side of the application is a small tab that has "Geogebra" 
written on it.  Press this tab a number of times to see what happens (GeoGebra 
should be shown and hidden as you press the button.)

2) The right side of the application also contains a plugin called PiperDocs. 
Open the plugin and look through the documentation by pressing the hyperlinks. 
You can go back to the main documentation page by pressing the "Home" icon 
which is at the top of the plugin.  Pressing on a function name in the 
list box will display the documentation for that function.  The source code for
some of the functions can also be displayed by pressing the "Source" button at
the top of the plugin.

2) The tabs at the bottom of the screen which read "Activity Log", "Console", 
and "Error List" are all plugins that can be shown and hidden as needed.

3) Go back to the Geogebra plugin and press the small black inverted
triangle that is near it.  A popup menu will appear which has menu
items such as "Float", "Dock at Top", etc.  Select the "Float" menu
item and see what happens.

4) The Geogebra plugin was detached from the main window so it can be
resized and placed where needed.  Select the inverted black triangle
on the floating windows and try docking the Geogebra plugin back to
the main window again, perhaps in a different position.

5) Try moving the plugins at the bottom of the screen around the same
way (and try not to have too much fun doing this :-)

6) Go to the "Plugins" menu at the top of the screen and select the
Calculator plugin.  You can also play with docking and undocking it if
you would like.


The future (more imagination needed).

1) Go back to the "Plugins" menu at the top of the screen and select
the "Plugin manager" menu.  When it comes up, select the "Install" tab
and wait for a few moments.  A list of programmer-oriented plugins
will appear that can be downloaded from the Internet and plugged into
MathRider.  Click on any plugin's name to read about what it does.
Now, imagine that these programmer-oriented plugins were replaced by
dozens of mathematics-oriented plugins.  This is one part of the
vision for MathRider.

2) Just for fun, select the CharacterMap plugin by checking its
checkbox and install it by pressing the "Install" button.  After it is
finished downloading from the internet, close the plugin manager, find
the CharacterMap plugin in the "Plugins" menu, launch it, and
experiment with docking it.

Finally, whatever configuration the plugins are in when you close
MathRider, they will be preserved when it is launched again.



